# Factory Method

### Type:

Creational Pattern

### Description:

The factory method pattern is a design pattern that allows for the creation of objects without specifying the type of 
object that is to be created in code. A factory class contains a method that allows determination of the created type 
at run-time.

### Usage:

The factory pattern is used to replace class constructors, abstracting the process of object generation so that the type 
of the object instantiated can be determined at run-time.

A good example of the use of the factory pattern is when creating a connection to a data source if the type of the data 
source will be selected by the end-user using a graphical interface. In this case, an abstract class named "DataSource" 
may be created that defines the base functionality of all data sources. Many concrete subclasses may be created, perhaps 
"SqlDataSource", "XmlDataSource", "CsvDataSource", etc, each with specific functionality for a different type of data. 
At run-time, a further class, perhaps named "DataSourceFactory", generates objects of the correct concrete class based 
upon a parameter passed to the factory method.


**FactoryBase**

(BikeFactory)
This is an abstract base class for the concrete factory classes that will actually generate new objects. 
This class could be a simple interface containing the signature for the factory method. However, generally 
an abstract class will be used so that other standard functionality can be included and inherited by subclasses. 
In simple situations the factory method may be implemented in full here, rather than being declared as abstract.

**ConcreteFactory** 

(HondaFactory, SuzukiFactory) Inheriting from the FactoryBase class, the concrete factory classes inherit the actual 
factory method. This is overridden with the object generation code unless already implemented in full in the base class.

**ProductBase.** 

(Bike)This abstract class is the base class for the types of object that the factory can create. It is also the 
return type for the factory method. Again, this can be a simple interface if no general functionality is to be inherited 
by its subclasses.


**ConcreteProduct** 

(HondaCruiser, HondaDirtBike, SuzukiCruiser, SuzukiDirtBike) Multiple subclasses of the Product class are defined, 
each containing specific functionality. Objects of these classes are generated by the factory method.